Welcome to the UCR library.
I'm Judy Lee one of the librarians at UC
Riverside. This module covers steps to
creating a search strategy. Start your
plan of action by selecting your topic.
To do that you may want to pull out a
sheet of paper and a pen or pencil to
think about the topic. Some people like
to use concept maps as they sketch out
their ideas. A couple of these examples
are seen on the left of the slide. Your
topic should meet the requirements of
your assignment something to keep in
mind.
Hopefully the assigned topic or one that
you select will be meaningful or have
interest to you as well. You will break
up your topic into its major components,
then you will identify keywords or
subject terms that relate to those
components. Be flexible as you conduct
your research be prepared to tweak or
adjust your topic as you find more
relevant or interesting results from
your search. You may want to incorporate
what you find as you refine your
strategy. If you can, consider
alternatives to your original topic as a
back-up plan. The general procedure is to
use logical operators as you utilize
library databases for your search and
that includes the library catalog. These
logical operators are also known as
boolean operators they will connect the
search terms that lay within each
component of your search, such as
keywords. The operators will also connect
the components of your topic. The most
heavily used operators are "or" and "and"
how these words are used in the search
process will be different than how we
use them in conversation otherwise known
as natural
language. As you can see the boolean
operator "or" is more it puts together the
terms that represent a component as seen
in this Venn diagram, "or" can enlarge the
search set of a component the term
"colleges" and the term "universities" can
be synonyms that represent the same idea.
On the other hand the boolean operator
"and" is less, and links the search
components together and mandates that at
least one term in each component is
present in your search results,
"and" will limit the size of the resulting
set. The results of the search should be
about both colleges and first-generation
students. There are time-saving
additional features that you can add to
your research skills, truncation and
wildcards allow you to say keystrokes by
using word stems to include their
variations. In these examples
truncation normally allows for unlimited
truncation while wildcards allow for a
specific number of characters to vary
within the term. Always check which
symbols are used for each database or
resource as they can vary, both in the
symbol used and how the symbol is
interpreted. Phrase searching is useful
when the exact word order matters in a
multiple word term use the quotes. By the
way, the third example saw a coup is the
Korean for four to nine or April 29
which refers to the date of the 1992 LA
Riots. More search
tips. These frequently found database
features can help you refine your search
by applying limits or filters to it. In
using a database or resource for the
first time, spend a little time to become
familiar with the features that are
available to you. Before you head over to
a database to start your search, let's
step back a little and consider
different types of searches. Just to get
a bit of the bigger picture. Pearl growing
sometimes you can start with a clue or
one piece of information that can lead
you to other resources. This
investigative action can grow your
research much like the grain of sand
into a pearl. For example, you may be
talking to your instructor about your
topic and she remembers an article that
she came across she gives you the
citation to it. Even before you track it
down you can also search for this known
item in a database, if you find it there
the database can provide you with the
terms that describe the article. Whether
they be in the abstract as keywords or
possible leads to subject terms.
If specialized vocabulary is involved,
then knowing the language of the
discipline can be important. Also if you
find a key citation to a work, you can
use citation chaining to your advantage.
So who's cited this resource ? Could it be
that the citing work is also about the
same topic and that it might be useful
for you? This is another approach to link
forward in time to other items. That is
forward from that original item. Let's
move on, successive
fractions, here's another approach which
you can think of as researching in
chunks. You can start with a very broad
topic and narrow it down by scanning the
results and using what you discover to
refine your search. This way you let the
literature or what's out there
guide you into refining your topic. It's
one way of researching your way into the
topic. By the way, if you only have a
general idea of a topic and haven't
quite decided how to narrow it down
browsing the literature in this way as
preliminary work is another method to
create a search strategy. In this example,
we start with the very broad topic of
set A= college admissions then based on
the results we move to a narrower search
in set B=college admissions in public
universities. Although these results
could still be very large. From there we
can move to the more narrow topic of set
C=college admissions of first-generation
students in public universities. The next
type of search is what we typically
think of when we conduct searches and
which illustrate the use of boolean
operators. Building blocks if you have
already identified your topic in its
components, it is time to put the similar
terms together that represent each
component then connect the search
components together using the boolean
operators. In this example, we see the
terms used note the use of truncation as
well as phrase searching in our strategy.
Also note the use of parentheses for
search component A which is really more
of an exceptional case than the rule.
These parentheses are used for nested
logic which gives you control to
determine the order of the search
operations. In this case we put together
the concepts of college and admissions
with "and" and
add in the exact phrase "college
admissions" by using "or" to include it.
Databases have search boxes that tend to
work for each component where the terms
are linked together by the same boolean
operator. These parentheses or nested
logic, would allow you to mix the boolean
operators in the same search box to get
your desired results. What we want here
is the intersection of the three
components or search sets as represented
by that small shaded area in the diagram.
Look at the questions in the slide,
what if our results are too small to be
useful or even contain zero results? Well
take heart, this is where you try to be
creative, flexible and have an
alternative plan. In this example, instead
of the results of the three components
can the intersection of two of the
search components produce results that
you can use. Such as the intersections of
sets A and C or B and C or A and B that
is college admissions and
first-generation students, or public
universities and first-generation
students or college admissions and
public universities. Might some of these
resulting articles provide you with
evidence that you could use in your
paper? Can you think of other terms to
add to your search? Maybe you can make
one of the search components larger by
adding terms with "or" can you uncover
other work from one of your researcher
names that might help with your topic?
What about other works from one of the
co-authors? Can you switch out a
component in your search with an
alternative component that you've
considered? For example, instead of
first-generation students what
if you use other categories of students
such as, undocumented students or
veterans? As you can see the search
process is an evolving one. Your final
topic for your paper may turn out to be
different from your original topic. Think,
consider your topic and the terms you
will use. Search, try your search in an
appropriate database for your topic.
Review, examine the retrieved results are
there useful citations are there
additional terms or other information to
incorporate into your search strategy?
Refine, incorporate additional
information to revise your strategy.
Research, try out the revised strategy to
see if the search results have improved.
Think about these steps and be prepared
to dip into a database or resource more
than once as your search strategy
evolves. Maybe that's why it's called
research. Some people think that the
search process is a straight line, that
one could put search terms into a
database get some results and then be
done. Is this likely to be a perfect
search? It can happen, depending on how
the search is constructed, but that is
not always the case. Think back about
your own experiences with academic work
or for personal research. We can think of
the research process and the resulting
search strategy as being cyclical over
time. It's really more like a
stretched-out slinky than a direct
straight line. For more information on
using the library's resources or your
options for help and research assistant.
Please consult the library's website
at http://library.ucr.edu
Thank You and good luck with
your research!